.TH LU\-SMT 1 "2026-06-01" "adsmt 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lu\-smt \- abductive\-deductive HOL+HKT SMT solver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lu\-smt
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIFILE\fR]
.br
.B lu\-smt
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fB\-\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lu\-smt
is the command\-line entry point for the
.B adsmt
solver. It accepts an SMT\-LIB v2 script or an
.B lu\-kb
knowledge base, runs the abductive\-deductive engine, and prints
the verdict on standard output.

The verdict family is
.RB ( sat ", " unsat ", " unknown ", " abductive ).
The fourth verdict
.RB ( abductive )
is adsmt\-specific: when ground reasoning gets stuck,
.B lu\-smt
returns a ranked list of candidate hypotheses that would discharge
the goal. The list is queryable via
.BR get\-abductive\-candidates .

.SH INPUT FORMATS
File extension drives parser selection:
.TP
.B .smt2
SMT\-LIB v2 script.
.TP
.B .kb
lu\-kb knowledge base (see
.BR lu\-kb (5)).
.PP
Reading from standard input is selected with a single hyphen as the
file argument:
.B lu\-smt \-
will treat stdin as an SMT\-LIB v2 script by default; pass
.B \-\-dialect=lu-kb
to interpret it as lu\-kb instead.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Verbose mode \(em prints solver progress and engine diagnostics on
standard error.
.TP
.B \-\-emit\-cert \fIFILE\fR
Write the proof certificate (S\-expression format) to
.IR FILE .
.TP
.B \-\-check\-cert \fIFILE\fR
Re\-verify a previously emitted certificate without re\-running the
solver. Exits 0 if the certificate is valid, non\-zero otherwise.
.TP
.B \-\-audit\-json
Emit audit diagnostics on standard error as a JSON stream (for
editor / CI consumption).
.TP
.B \-\-abductive\-tier \fIN\fR
Set the maximum abductive escalation tier
.RB ( 0
disables abduction;
.B 4
is the default and most aggressive).
.TP
.B \-\-trigger\-mode \fImiller\fR | \fIfree\fR
Restrict quantifier triggers to Miller patterns
.RB ( miller ,
default) or allow non\-Miller patterns
.RB ( free ).
.TP
.B \-\-timeout \fIMS\fR
Hard wall\-clock timeout in milliseconds.
.TP
.B \-\-seed \fIN\fR
Set the random seed for reproducibility.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print full usage and exit.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B ADSMT_LOG
Log level: one of
.BR error ", " warn ", " info ", " debug ", " trace .
.TP
.B ADSMT_BACKEND
Override the SAT backend. One of
.BR oxiz ", " cadical ", " builtin .
.TP
.B ADSMT_THREADS
Override the engine thread count.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
.BR sat " or " unsat
verdict.
.TP
.B 1
.B unknown
verdict.
.TP
.B 2
.B abductive
verdict (candidates may be queried with
.BR get\-abductive\-candidates ).
.TP
.B 3
Parse error or invalid input.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR adsmt\-lsp (1),
.BR lu\-kb (5)
.SH AUTHOR
NEWSNIPER.
